It's no question at all.
I'm a fan of NgRx.
But do I have any alternate
recommendations for maybe a smaller team?
I've heard good things about Akita.
I think, philosophically, it's a little
bit different, but the idea is the same.
I also believe that if you
understand how Redux works,
it's a very,
very simple pattern that you can
create your own version of
it in about 15 minutes.
And I've done it.
Look, if I was doing
a service with a subject,
it would very quickly turn
into just a version of NgRx.
And so,
I would say off the top of my head,
I think Akita is really
the other kind of major player.
One thing that's interesting to me, and
this is more on the react side,
but state machine.
And there's some really
interesting things around state
management via the state machine,
and I know Frontend Masters,
we've had a couple of
workshops around that.
>> Yeah, we have up here at State 1,
which works across all frameworks.
>> Yeah, so, I would also say
if you're looking to experiment,
check out the X state project and
there is a,
conveniently, a workshop on
that in Frontend Masters.
So, to me, that's pretty compelling.
I believe the question is that,
is it appropriate to use the service with
a subject in the current architecture,
which I presume is what we've
been talking about all day?
And if that is the question,
then I'm prepared to answer it.
Service with a subject is, I believe,
it is a solution that
works at a certain scale.
Once you start to increase your
application in terms of complexity,
size, moving pieces,
that pattern would just fall down.
It will become unwieldy.
And even the individuals that I know that
are really pro service with a subject,
that they will concede that
eventually you need a proper state
management library such as NgRx or Akita.
Their point is that it should not be
your default state management option,
if you don't need it, and
certainly if you don't understand it.
And to that I can say, I pretty much
philosophically agree with you.
And I think that makes sense.
So, I think in terms of state management,
that depending on
the lifecycle of your application,
is it a proof of concept, is it an MVP,
is it an enterprise application that has
to support hundreds of thousands of users?
That's going to affect how soon
you adopt a library like NgRx
right out of the gates.
But, in terms of control flow,
I will use a subject or
a service with a subject for
a lot of other things outside
of state management,
such as notifications.
Global notifications
within an application.
It is a notification
service that has a subject
under the hood,
is very efficient, and it works.
So, the answer is,
if you're building anything trivial,
you need to take state
management seriously,
which means that you're going to
outgrow a service with a subject.
A service with a subject as a lot of other
uses outside of straight application
state management.
But if you're in that transition period,
where you're either converting to NgRx,
or you're learning NgRx, or
your app is very small and
it may not get any bigger, then you
have all of my blessing to start there.
It's a really good starting place.
I don't think it's a great finishing place
depending on what the destination is.
The question is,
why is it called a pessimistic update?
Allow me to provide some context.
So, I'm gonna go to effects.
And what you're gonna see here is
In the loadWidgets, nothing.
It's just a standard call.
But then, if you go into update, create,
even delete, notice that the run block is
wrapped in a pessimistic
update function call.
Very astute, dear student.
What this does, and so this is created
by the wonderful folks at Nrwl.
I love them to pieces.
And what this does is, so,
the converse of that is fetch.
So you have fetch, pessimistic update,
and optimistic update.
I'm just stringing out
the cliffhanger as long as I can,
cuz I know I have your attention.
It determines how you're
going to dispatch the action.
And more so, how you're going to
allow your state to be updated.
So, in an asynchronous environment,
you can update your local state and
then hope that you
remote state catches up.
Or you can say, look, I'm gonna
make sure it works at the server,
before I update my local state.
So, if you're on a mobile device and you
want that change to happen immediately,
you're saying I'm pretty optimistic
about the result of this.
So, I'm gonna go ahead and update local
state and them I'm gonna wait for,
essentially, the remote state to catch up.
And if something happens, well then
I just have to kind of unwind it.
And so this is kind of the whole nature
of offline web workers, and PWA's.
Pessimistic update, which is typically
what I default to because it's safest,
is I'm saying,
I'm pessimistic about the outcome.
So, I'm going to wait for the remote
server to successfully respond before I
allow my local state to be updated.
Hopefully that made sense, but,
it really depends on how fast you wanna
update your UI and your local state.
Do it immediately, and
then hope that the server works.
That's optimistic.
Or, wait for the server to actually come
through for once before you do something.
That's pessimistic.
So, as we bring this wonderful
workshop to a conclusion,
there's just a couple resources
that I would like to point out.
I will augment this inside of
the repository, within the read me, so
that anything that, maybe I remember
at midnight that I should have added or
I should have said,
I'll go ahead and add that.
So, whenever you are watching this video,
make sure that you check that because
it'll certainly be longer than
what I'm going to mention here.
But I would like to call out a couple
of very specific people in terms of
the content that they are creating,
the resources that they're creating,
that I have found to
be incredibly helpful.
So, the first one is my friend and
his name is Minko.
And he is a,
like a senior engineer at Google.
And he's worked specifically
on the Angular team.
And he is very, very, very good.
And there's a couple things that he's
done here that I think are really,
really interesting.
The one that I want to call out,
as, I believe,
pretty much just a pot of gold is
his Angular Performance Checklist.
And so he goes through and
he just talks about
all the things that you can do
to improve your performance.
And so, bundling, minification,
tree-shaking, and on, and on, and on.
And so,
there's a lot of really good information
here around how to optimize Angular.
And he works on the Angular team.
So, he is very, very good with that.
So, I've had the opportunity and
the privilege of working with Minko
on a number of things,
including the latest Angular roadmap.
So, in terms of a community initiative,
him and I are collaborating on that, and
he just has a lot of really
good ideas about performance.
Another individual that I wanna
call out is Michael Hladky.
And If I lived in Europe,
I was way more handsome, and
more talented, I would be Michael Hladky.
And even if you look at this pinned
tweet right here, that this, and
I've heard him talk about this,
is phenomenal, this project.
So, if we go over here, and
hopefully there's a screenshot.
He had it in his post, but he is
building some tooling around RxJs and
Angular, to dramatically improve
the performance of Angular.
And so
I would definitely put him on the radar.
And I'm presuming the top is Angular.
The second one here is
the performance piece.
So Minko, Michael, and
then, last but not least,
in terms of DevOps, this is a site
ran by my friend Stephen Kuenzli.
And he has a lot of really
good ideas around security,
putting things into production.
And a lot of what I know about cloud
infrastructure, comes from him.
So, he's super into serverless,
at the moment, a lot into security.
And so I would definitely
check out No Drama DevOps.
And then, as well, always keep
an eye on the Angular I/O website,
as well as the NestJS website, cuz they
are constantly doing a ton of good stuff.
And last but not least, the NX by Nrwl is,
I highly recommend keeping
an eye out on nx.dev
because none of this
would be possible without
the work that they're doing
around this model Repo.
It's just a tool that I use all the time.
I really, really, really,
really, really love it.
I think it's excellent.
And so, I believe across those couple of
resources plus anything that I'll put
into the read me, as soon as I think about
it, I am certain that that will help
you build higher quality, better Angular
applications to put into production.